DOC-923 Update tasks to compute units for resource allocation (#207)
redpanda-data/cloud-docs: modules/develop/pages/connect/configuration/resource-management.adoc

= Manage Pipeline Resources
:description: Learn how to set an initial resource limit for a standard data pipeline (excluding Ollama AI components) and how to manually scale the pipeline’s resources to improve performance.
:page-aliases: develop:connect/configuration/scale-pipelines.adoc

{description}

== Prerequisites

> - A running xref:get-started:cluster-types/byoc/index.adoc[BYOC] (not BYOVPC) or xref:get-started:cluster-types/dedicated/create-dedicated-cloud-cluster.adoc[Dedicated], xref:get-started:cluster-types/serverless-pro.adoc[Serverless Pro], or xref:get-started:cluster-types/serverless.adoc[Serverless Standard] cluster.

Author: From our production env it looks like you can now scale pipeline resources for all cluster types.

Author: I tried both Serverless types in our test environments and they both  seemed to scale (in terms of tasks/compute units). I guess I just need to know what you are going to release.

Author: I've assumed that Serverless (Standard and Pro) will allow pipeline scaling.

Author: Updated.

- An estimate of the throughput of your data pipeline. You can get some basic statistics by running your data pipeline locally using the xref:redpanda-connect:components:processors/benchmark.adoc[`benchmark` processor].

=== Understanding compute units

A compute unit allocates a specific amount of server resources (CPU and memory) to a data pipeline to handle message throughput. By default, each pipeline is allocated one compute unit, which includes 0.1 CPU (100 milliCPU or `100m`) and 400 MB (`400M`) of memory, and provides a message throughput of up to 1 MB/sec. 

> Server resources are charged at an hourly rate in compute unit hours and you can allocate up to a maximum of 18 compute units per pipeline.

Reviewer: Maybe we can say that the maximum number of compute units varies by provider, it's no longer 18 after we did some tests.
It's 17 on AWS, 15 on GCP and 16 on Azure (don't think we need to state that explicitly).

Author: @jrkinley - should we state the compute unit limit per provider or remove all mention of an upper limit?

Reviewer 2: We are currently increasing the maximum pipeline size, so that twice and 4 times as large pipelines will be able to run. The compute units for the larger pipelines are:
- 36 and 76 for AWS
- 33 and 72 for GCP
- 35 and 74 for Azure
Maybe we can say what the limit is more or less and that it depends on the provider? Not sure whether 15 vs 17 makes so much difference for users. The UI is going to validate in anyway.

Author: @nicolaferraro and @tomasz-sadura. It would be good to understand how this is going to be implemented in the UI. Are there any designs for this?

Reviewer 3: I find it strange for the limits to be different. What was so different in testing to warrant a 200 millicore difference between providers?

Will all pipelines this large run on the 8-core instance sizes? i.e. we're not planning to use 4-core instance sizes for the 33-36 compute unit pipelines?

Reviewer 2: we agreed with Nicola to go with the unified numbers across providers, which are:
- 15 compute units for 2-core machine
- 33 to run on 4-core
- 72 for 8-core

Reviewer 3: I think that makes sense. Thanks @tomasz-sadura @nicolaferraro.

Author: Updated max to 15 as in thread below unit limits for larger pipelines are configurable.

= Manage Pipeline Resources
:description: Learn how to set an initial resource limit for a standard data pipeline (excluding Ollama AI components) and how to manually scale the pipeline’s resources to improve performance.
:page-aliases: develop:connect/configuration/scale-pipelines.adoc

{description}

== Prerequisites

- A running xref:get-started:cluster-types/byoc/index.adoc[BYOC] (not BYOVPC), xref:get-started:cluster-types/dedicated/create-dedicated-cloud-cluster.adoc[Dedicated], xref:get-started:cluster-types/serverless-pro.adoc[Serverless Pro] or xref:get-started:cluster-types/serverless.adoc[Serverless Standard] cluster.
- An estimate of the throughput of your data pipeline. You can get some basic statistics by running your data pipeline locally using the xref:redpanda-connect:components:processors/benchmark.adoc[`benchmark` processor].

=== Understanding compute units

A compute unit allocates a specific amount of server resources (CPU and memory) to a data pipeline to handle message throughput. By default, each pipeline is allocated one compute unit, which includes 0.1 CPU (100 milliCPU or `100m`) and 400 MB (`400M`) of memory. 

> For sizing purposes, one compute unit supports an estimated message throughput of 1 MB/sec. However, actual performance depends on the complexity of a pipeline, including the components it contains and processing it does.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For sizing purposes, one compute unit supports an estimated message throughput of 1 MB/s. However, actual performance depends on the complexity of a pipeline, including the components it contains and the processing it does.
```

Author: Updated.

> You can allocate up to a maximum of 72 compute units per pipeline. You can add compute units in increments of one up to 15 compute units. Beyond this, scaling options increase to 33 and then to 72 compute units. This scaling strategy is based on the number of machine cores required to provision resources, which scale from two to four, and then to eight cores.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can allocate a maximum of 72 compute units per pipeline. You can add compute units in increments of one up to 15 compute units. Beyond this, scaling options increase to 33 and then to 72 compute units. This scaling strategy is based on the number of machine cores required to provision resources, which scale from two to four, and then to eight cores.
```

Author: Updated.

. Select the **Redpanda Connect** tab.
. Click **Create pipeline**.
. Enter details for your pipeline, including a short name and description.

> . In the **Compute units** box, leave the default **1** compute unit to experiment with pipelines that create low message volumes. For higher throughputs, you can allocate up to a maximum of 18 compute units.

Author: Updated max to 15 until limits for larger pipelines are configurable.

> . In the **Compute units** box, leave the default **1** compute unit to experiment with pipelines that create low message volumes. For higher throughputs, you can allocate up to a maximum of 18 compute units.

Author: Updated to 72.

. Go to the cluster where the pipeline is set up.
. On the **Connect** page, select your pipeline and look at the value for **Resources**.
+
* CPU resources are displayed first, in milliCPU. For example, `1` compute unit is `100m` or 0.1 CPU. 
* Memory is displayed next in megabytes. For example, `1` compute unit is `400M` or 400 MB.

--

> Data Plane API::

Author: Are there any differences in terms of scaling pipelines for Serverless and Serverless Pro using the Data Plane API?

Reviewer: no, the API is the same

. Log in to https://cloud.redpanda.com[Redpanda Cloud^].
. Go to the cluster where the pipeline is set up.
. On the **Connect** page, select your pipeline and click **Edit**.

> . In the **Compute units** box, update the number of compute units. One compute unit provides a message throughput of approximately 1 MB/sec. For higher throughputs, you can allocate up to a maximum of 18 compute units per pipeline.

Reviewer: See above for max. Will make sure the UI is up to date

> . In the **Compute units** box, update the number of compute units. One compute unit provides a message throughput of approximately 1 MB/sec. For higher throughputs, you can allocate up to a maximum of 18 compute units per pipeline.

Author: Updated max to 15 as in thread below unit limits for larger pipelines are configurable.

> . In the **Compute units** box, update the number of compute units. One compute unit provides a message throughput of approximately 1 MB/sec. For higher throughputs, you can allocate up to a maximum of 18 compute units per pipeline.

Author: Now set max to 72 as maximum.

> . In the **Compute units** box, update the number of compute units. One compute unit provides a message throughput of approximately 1 MB/sec. For higher throughputs, you can allocate up to a maximum of 72 compute units per pipeline.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
. For **Compute units**, enter the number of compute units. One compute unit provides a message throughput of approximately 1 MB/s. For higher throughputs, you can allocate a maximum of 72 compute units for each pipeline.
```
@asimms41 also suggest similar update in the next step: "For **Configuration**, paste..."

Author: Updated.
